src/pages/docs/getting-started/custom-charts.mdx, before:



# Custom Charts

REAVIZ is extremely flexible and allows you to create custom charts.

Almost all of the chart types allow you to pass `JSX` elements in the props; this allows you
to customize every aspect of each element. Additionally, you can mix charts and their child components
together to make combination charts.

## Radar Chart Example
The Radar chart was the primary driver behind creating REAVIZ. This chart combines
multiple chart types to create a new visualization. Its a great example of how to leverage
various chart internal components to create new chart types.

This chart is more than just pretty, it served as a central element for cyber-security analysts to
identify trends and threats. For more information on the chart and design
itself, checkout: [From Dashboard to HUD: How JASK reimagined the security analyst user experience](https://medium.com/@harlanelam/from-dashboard-to-hud-how-jask-reimagined-the-security-analyst-user-experience-fcbe69ffab29). The chart was rewritten
and visually tweaked from original design for demonstration purposes.

### Breaking it Down
Before we start with the code, let's break this chart down to its core elements.

![breakdown](/breakdown.png)

While the chart looks pretty intense, its actually not that crazy. The chart is made up of 3 different
chart types: scatter, bar, and area. Additionally there is some decorative elements that are pretty simple
svg lines.

### Code Tutorial
Now that we understand the general structure of the chart type, we can walk through the [code](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz/blob/master/docs/advanced/Radar.tsx)
for this chart now.

All of the charts in REAVIZ start with the `ChartContainer` component. This component deals
with measuring sizes and creating the root svg element for us. Below is a minimal example
of how to configure the `ChartContainer` component.

```jsx
<ChartContainer
  id="radar"
  width={500}
  height={500}
  margins={margins}
  xAxisVisible={false}
  yAxisVisible={false}
  center={true}
>
  {({ chartWidth, chartHeight }) => {
    const rad = Math.min(chartWidth, chartHeight) / 2;
    return (
      <Fragment>
        {renderAxis(chartHeight, chartWidth)}
        {renderOuterLines(rad)}
        {renderSideLines(rad)}
        {renderInnerLines(rad)}
        <RadarBarChart height={chartHeight} width={chartWidth} radius={rad} data={barData} />
        <RadarAreaChart height={chartHeight} width={chartWidth} radius={rad} data={areaData} />
        <RadarScatterPlot radius={rad} data={scatterData} />
        <InnerX />
      </Fragment>
    );
  }}
</ChartContainer>
```

Inside the `ChartContainer` component, there is a callback that gives
us the chart dimensions. We use this to calculate the radius of the chart
and then tee up the `RadarBarChart`, `RadarAreaChart` and `RadarScatterPlot` along
with a few visual components for axises and decoration.

Let's take a look at the first component `RadarBarChart`.

```jsx
const RadarBarChart = ({
  height,
  width,
  radius,
  data
}) => {
  const { innerRadius, outerRadius } = getRadius(9, 12, radius);
  const { yScale, xScale, data: barData } = buildScale(
    data,
    outerRadius,
    innerRadius,
    false
  );

  // The `RadialBarSeries` is a internal component used by the `RadialBarChart`.
  // These components are exposed so you can compose them in ways like this.
  return (
    <RadialBarSeries
      id="radar-bars"
      colorScheme={["#016691"]}
      data={barData}
      xScale={xScale}
      yScale={yScale}
      innerRadius={innerRadius}
      width={width}
      height={height}
      bar={
        <RadialBar
          gradient={false}
          guide={
            <RadialGuideBar
              opacity={0.2}
              fill="#016691"
            />
          }
        />
      }
    />
  );
};
```

This chart uses the `RadialBarSeries` component to render the bars. We modify the
positions and appearence of those `RadialBar` components by building a custom scale.
The [buildScale](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz/blob/master/docs/advanced/radarUtils.ts)
function takes the data and returns scales and a modified data object that the bar chart can understand.
This function is relatively simple and used in all the child chart components:

```ts
export const buildScale = (
  initialData = [],
  outerRad = 0,
  innerRad = 0,
  isTime = false,
  xDomain
) => {
  const data = buildShallowChartData(initialData);

  // If we are dealing with time, we need to use the `scaleTime`
  // scale provided by d3, otherwise lets use the `scaleBand`.
  let xScale;
  if (isTime) {
    xDomain = (xDomain || extent(data, 'x'));
    xScale = scaleTime().range([0, 2 * Math.PI]).domain(xDomain);
  } else {
    xDomain = (xDomain || uniqueBy(data, d => d.x));
    xScale = scaleBand().range([0, 2 * Math.PI]).domain(xDomain);
  }

  const yDomain = getYDomain({ data, scaled: false });

  return {
    yScale: getRadialYScale(innerRad, outerRad, yDomain),
    xScale,
    data
  };
};
```

These charts also use a function called `getRadius` to determine
render positions:

```ts
export const getRadius = (startIdx, endIdx, rad) => {
  // Leveraging the d3 `scaleLinear` to determine the radius.
  const scale = scaleLinear().domain([0, ARC_COUNT]).range([INNER_RADIUS, rad]);
  const arcs = scale.ticks(ARC_COUNT);

  return {
    innerRadius: scale(arcs[startIdx]),
    outerRadius: scale(arcs[endIdx])
  };
};
```

These function are mainly leveraging the `d3-scale` library to build the scales
and data all the charts expect.

The next chart in the series is `RadarAreaChart`.

```jsx
const RadarAreaChart = ({
  height,
  width,
  radius,
  data
}) => {
  const { innerRadius, outerRadius } = getRadius(6, 8, radius);
  const { yScale, xScale, data: areaData } = buildScale(
    data,
    outerRadius,
    innerRadius,
    true
  );

  return (
    <RadialAreaSeries
      id="radar-area"
      data={areaData}
      xScale={xScale}
      yScale={yScale}
      height={height}
      width={width}
      outerRadius={outerRadius}
      innerRadius={innerRadius}
      colorScheme={["#1E5DC8"]}
      line={<RadialLine strokeWidth={1} />}
      area={
        <RadialArea
          gradient={
            <RadialGradient
              stops={[
                <GradientStop key={1} offset="40%" stopOpacity={0.5} />,
                <GradientStop key={2} offset="10%" stopOpacity={0.1} />
              ]}
            />
          }
        />
      }
    />
  );
};
```

Similar to the `RadarBarChart` component, this chart uses the `RadialAreaSeries`
which is internally used by `RadialAreaChart`.

Moving the last chart in this series, we have the `RadialScatterSeries` and
as you can imagine, similar to the other charts we utilize the `RadialScatterSeries`
from the interal `RadialScatterPlot` component.

```jsx
const RadarScatterPlot = ({
  radius,
  data
}) => {
  const { innerRadius, outerRadius } = getRadius(4, 4, radius);
  const { yScale, xScale, data: scatterData } = buildScale(
    data,
    outerRadius,
    innerRadius,
    false
  );
  return (
    <RadialScatterSeries
      id="radar-scatter"
      data={scatterData}
      xScale={xScale}
      yScale={yScale}
      point={
        <RadialScatterPoint
          symbol={point => {
            let size = 0;
            if (point.value >= 80) {
              size = 200;
            } else if (point.value >= 50) {
              size = 100;
            } else if (point.value >= 40) {
              size = 50;
            }

            const d = (symbol()
              .type(symbolTriangle)
              .size(size))();

            return (
              <path
                d={d}
                fill="#CB003E"
                stroke="#EF0954"
                strokeWidth="1"
              />
            );
          }}
        />
      }
    />
  );
};
```

The `RadarScatterPlot` uses a custom callback to render a triange symbol ( d3-shape code ).
We use the value of the point to determine the size of the symbol.

### Wrapping Up
And thats it! This example shows you how you can mix and match
various different charts to build truley unique visualizations.
You can see all the code [here](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz/blob/master/docs/advanced/Radar.tsx).

Commit message:

Add code sample for custom chart

src/pages/docs/getting-started/custom-charts.mdx, after:



# Custom Charts

REAVIZ is extremely flexible and allows you to create custom charts.

Almost all of the chart types allow you to pass `JSX` elements in the props; this allows you
to customize every aspect of each element. Additionally, you can mix charts and their child components
together to make combination charts.

## Radar Chart Example
The Radar chart was the primary driver behind creating REAVIZ. This chart combines
multiple chart types to create a new visualization. Its a great example of how to leverage
various chart internal components to create new chart types.

This chart is more than just pretty, it served as a central element for cyber-security analysts to
identify trends and threats. For more information on the chart and design
itself, checkout: [From Dashboard to HUD: How JASK reimagined the security analyst user experience](https://medium.com/@harlanelam/from-dashboard-to-hud-how-jask-reimagined-the-security-analyst-user-experience-fcbe69ffab29). The chart was rewritten
and visually tweaked from original design for demonstration purposes.

### Breaking it Down
Before we start with the code, let's break this chart down to its core elements.

![breakdown](/breakdown.png)

While the chart looks pretty intense, its actually not that crazy. The chart is made up of 3 different
chart types: scatter, bar, and area. Additionally there is some decorative elements that are pretty simple
svg lines.

### Code Tutorial
Now that we understand the general structure of the chart type, we can walk through the [code](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz/blob/master/docs/advanced/Radar.tsx)
for this chart now.

All of the charts in REAVIZ start with the `ChartContainer` component. This component deals
with measuring sizes and creating the root svg element for us. Below is a minimal example
of how to configure the `ChartContainer` component.

```jsx
<ChartContainer
  id="radar"
  width={500}
  height={500}
  margins={margins}
  xAxisVisible={false}
  yAxisVisible={false}
  center={true}
>
  {({ chartWidth, chartHeight }) => {
    const rad = Math.min(chartWidth, chartHeight) / 2;
    return (
      <Fragment>
        {renderAxis(chartHeight, chartWidth)}
        {renderOuterLines(rad)}
        {renderSideLines(rad)}
        {renderInnerLines(rad)}
        <RadarBarChart height={chartHeight} width={chartWidth} radius={rad} data={barData} />
        <RadarAreaChart height={chartHeight} width={chartWidth} radius={rad} data={areaData} />
        <RadarScatterPlot radius={rad} data={scatterData} />
        <InnerX />
      </Fragment>
    );
  }}
</ChartContainer>
```

Inside the `ChartContainer` component, there is a callback that gives
us the chart dimensions. We use this to calculate the radius of the chart
and then tee up the `RadarBarChart`, `RadarAreaChart` and `RadarScatterPlot` along
with a few visual components for axises and decoration.

Let's take a look at the first component `RadarBarChart`.

```jsx
const RadarBarChart = ({
  height,
  width,
  radius,
  data
}) => {
  const { innerRadius, outerRadius } = getRadius(9, 12, radius);
  const { yScale, xScale, data: barData } = buildScale(
    data,
    outerRadius,
    innerRadius,
    false
  );

  // The `RadialBarSeries` is a internal component used by the `RadialBarChart`.
  // These components are exposed so you can compose them in ways like this.
  return (
    <RadialBarSeries
      id="radar-bars"
      colorScheme={["#016691"]}
      data={barData}
      xScale={xScale}
      yScale={yScale}
      innerRadius={innerRadius}
      width={width}
      height={height}
      bar={
        <RadialBar
          gradient={false}
          guide={
            <RadialGuideBar
              opacity={0.2}
              fill="#016691"
            />
          }
        />
      }
    />
  );
};
```

This chart uses the `RadialBarSeries` component to render the bars. We modify the
positions and appearence of those `RadialBar` components by building a custom scale.
The [buildScale](https://github.com/reaviz/reaviz/blob/master/docs/advanced/radarUtils.ts)
function takes the data and returns scales and a modified data object that the bar chart can understand.
This function is relatively simple and used in all the child chart components:

```ts
export const buildScale = (
  initialData = [],
  outerRad = 0,
  innerRad = 0,
  isTime = false,
  xDomain
) => {
  const data = buildShallowChartData(initialData);

  // If we are dealing with time, we need to use the `scaleTime`
  // scale provided by d3, otherwise lets use the `scaleBand`.
  let xScale;
  if (isTime) {
    xDomain = (xDomain || extent(data, 'x'));
    xScale = scaleTime().range([0, 2 * Math.PI]).domain(xDomain);
  } else {
    xDomain = (xDomain || uniqueBy(data, d => d.x));
    xScale = scaleBand().range([0, 2 * Math.PI]).domain(xDomain);
  }

  const yDomain = getYDomain({ data, scaled: false });

  return {
    yScale: getRadialYScale(innerRad, outerRad, yDomain),
    xScale,
    data
  };
};
```

These charts also use a function called `getRadius` to determine
render positions:

```ts
export const getRadius = (startIdx, endIdx, rad) => {
  // Leveraging the d3 `scaleLinear` to determine the radius.
  const scale = scaleLinear().domain([0, ARC_COUNT]).range([INNER_RADIUS, rad]);
  const arcs = scale.ticks(ARC_COUNT);

  return {
    innerRadius: scale(arcs[startIdx]),
    outerRadius: scale(arcs[endIdx])
  };
};
```

These function are mainly leveraging the `d3-scale` library to build the scales
and data all the charts expect.

The next chart in the series is `RadarAreaChart`.

```jsx
const RadarAreaChart = ({
  height,
  width,
  radius,
  data
}) => {
  const { innerRadius, outerRadius } = getRadius(6, 8, radius);
  const { yScale, xScale, data: areaData } = buildScale(
    data,
    outerRadius,
    innerRadius,
    true
  );

  return (
    <RadialAreaSeries
      id="radar-area"
      data={areaData}
      xScale={xScale}
      yScale={yScale}
      height={height}
      width={width}
      outerRadius={outerRadius}
      innerRadius={innerRadius}
      colorScheme={["#1E5DC8"]}
      line={<RadialLine strokeWidth={1} />}
      area={
        <RadialArea
          gradient={
            <RadialGradient
              stops={[
                <GradientStop key={1} offset="40%" stopOpacity={0.5} />,
                <GradientStop key={2} offset="10%" stopOpacity={0.1} />
              ]}
            />
          }
        />
      }
    />
  );
};
```

Similar to the `RadarBarChart` component, this chart uses the `RadialAreaSeries`
which is internally used by `RadialAreaChart`.

Moving the last chart in this series, we have the `RadialScatterSeries` and
as you can imagine, similar to the other charts we utilize the `RadialScatterSeries`
from the interal `RadialScatterPlot` component.

```jsx
const RadarScatterPlot = ({
  radius,
  data
}) => {
  const { innerRadius, outerRadius } = getRadius(4, 4, radius);
  const { yScale, xScale, data: scatterData } = buildScale(
    data,
    outerRadius,
    innerRadius,
    false
  );
  return (
    <RadialScatterSeries
      id="radar-scatter"
      data={scatterData}
      xScale={xScale}
      yScale={yScale}
      point={
        <RadialScatterPoint
          symbol={point => {
            let size = 0;
            if (point.value >= 80) {
              size = 200;
            } else if (point.value >= 50) {
              size = 100;
            } else if (point.value >= 40) {
              size = 50;
            }

            const d = (symbol()
              .type(symbolTriangle)
              .size(size))();

            return (
              <path
                d={d}
                fill="#CB003E"
                stroke="#EF0954"
                strokeWidth="1"
              />
            );
          }}
        />
      }
    />
  );
};
```

The `RadarScatterPlot` uses a custom callback to render a triange symbol ( d3-shape code ).
We use the value of the point to determine the size of the symbol.

### Wrapping Up
And thats it! This example shows you how you can mix and match
various different charts to build truley unique visualizations.
You can see all the code in the [complete radar chart code sample](/docs/getting-started/radar-code-sample).
